Nexus V2 Documentation - don't review or merge!! (#5068)
temporalio/documentation: docs/encyclopedia/nexus/temporal-operation-handler.mdx

**Combine messaging and a backing in one handler.** A handler can Signal a running Workflow to unblock it and then return a different Execution's result for the caller to await. These are not separate handler types you pick between; they compose inside one start handler.

**Get observability across the Namespace boundary without wiring it.** The Client handed to your handler propagates [bidirectional links](/nexus/execution-debugging#bi-directional-linking) and request Ids on every call it makes. The caller-side and handler-side Executions are connected in the UI and in [Event History](/encyclopedia/event-history), so a single trace crosses the boundary between two teams' Namespaces.

**Stay idempotent through retries.** The server retries Nexus start requests, and the request Id travels with them. Deriving the backing Execution's Id from it means a retry targets the same Execution rather than starting a second one.

**Cancel through the same handler.** The Operation token records which kind of Execution backs the Operation, so a cancellation request reaches the right place. The default behavior is usually what you want, and each kind can be overridden when it is not.

> **Grow a handler without rewriting it.** An Operation that starts out completing inline can later gain an async backing, or pick up a Signal, without changing handler type or breaking its contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Grow a handler without rewriting it.** An Operation that starts out completing inline can later gain an async backing, or send a Signal, without changing handler type or breaking its contract.
```

I am not sure what pick up means in this context, my initial read was it could receive a signal but that is not true.

### Back an Operation with a Workflow

Call `startWorkflow` on the Client and return its result. The Operation completes when the Workflow returns, delivering the Workflow's return value to the caller.

<SdkTabs hideUnsupportedLanguages>
  <SdkTabs.Go>

```go
op := temporalnexus.MustNewTemporalOperation(
	temporalnexus.TemporalOperationOptions[GreetingInput, GreetingOutput]{
		Name: "startGreeting",
		Start: func(
			ctx context.Context,
			nc temporalnexus.NexusClient,
			input GreetingInput,
			_ temporalnexus.StartTemporalOperationOptions,
		) (temporalnexus.TemporalOperationResult[GreetingOutput], error) {
			return temporalnexus.StartWorkflow(ctx, nc,
				client.StartWorkflowOptions{ID: "greeting-" + input.Name},
				GreetingWorkflow, input)
		},
	})
```

  </SdkTabs.Go>
  <SdkTabs.Java>

```java
@OperationImpl
public OperationHandler<GreetingInput, GreetingOutput> startGreeting() {

>   return TemporalOperationHandler.create(

Reviewer: Should use the `@TemporalOperation` annotation

Reviewer: This goes for all samples

      (context, client, input) ->
          client.startWorkflow(
              GreetingWorkflow.class,
              GreetingWorkflow::greet,
              input,
              WorkflowOptions.newBuilder()
                  .setWorkflowId("greeting-" + input.getName())
                  .build()));
}
```

  </SdkTabs.Java>
  <SdkTabs.Python>

```python
@nexus.temporal_operation
async def start_greeting(
    self,
    _ctx: nexus.TemporalStartOperationContext,
    client: nexus.TemporalNexusClient,
    input: GreetingInput,
) -> nexus.TemporalOperationResult[GreetingOutput]:
    return await client.start_workflow(
        GreetingWorkflow.run, input, id=f"greeting-{input.name}"
    )
```

  </SdkTabs.Python>
  <SdkTabs.TypeScript>

```typescript
const startGreeting = new temporalnexus.TemporalOperationHandler<GreetingInput, GreetingOutput>({
  async start(ctx, client, input) {
    return await client.startWorkflow(greetingWorkflow, {
      args: [input],
      workflowId: `greeting-${input.name}`,
    });
  },
});
```

  </SdkTabs.TypeScript>
  <SdkTabs.DotNet>

```csharp

> TemporalOperationHandler.FromHandleFactory<GreetingInput, GreetingOutput>(

Reviewer: Should use `[TemporalOperation]` decorator, this goes for all dotnet samples

Author: Done

    input: UpdateAddressInput,
) -> nexus.TemporalOperationResult[AddressOutput]:
    return await client.start_workflow_update(
        f"order-{input.order_id}",
        OrderWorkflow.update_shipping_address,
        input,
    )
```

  </SdkTabs.Python>
  <SdkTabs.TypeScript>

```typescript
const updateShippingAddressOp = new temporalnexus.TemporalOperationHandler<
  UpdateAddressInput,
  AddressOutput
>({
  async start(ctx, client, input) {
    return await client
      .getWorkflowHandle<typeof orderWorkflow>(`order-${input.orderId}`)
      .update(shippingAddressUpdate, { args: [input] });
  },
});
```

  </SdkTabs.TypeScript>
  <SdkTabs.DotNet>

```csharp
TemporalOperationHandler.FromHandleFactory<UpdateAddressInput, AddressOutput>(
    async (context, client, input) =>
        await client.StartWorkflowUpdateAsync<OrderWorkflow, AddressOutput>(
            $"order-{input.OrderId}",
            wf => wf.UpdateShippingAddressAsync(input),
            new() { WaitForStage = WorkflowUpdateStage.Accepted }));
```

  </SdkTabs.DotNet>
</SdkTabs>

Three constraints apply to Update-backed Operations, and the first two fail the Operation rather than degrading:

> - **Only the accepted stage is supported.** A Nexus Operation can only back an asynchronous Update, so the wait-for-stage must be "accepted". Go, Java, and .NET require you to set it and fail the Operation if it is anything else. Python and TypeScript set it for you.

Reviewer: This is a bug in Python and Typescript. Lets fix it not document it

> - **A callback URL is required.** The Operation is how the Update's result reaches the caller, so a caller that provided no callback URL gets a `BAD_REQUEST` handler error.

Reviewer: Remove this , callback url is not something exposed to the user. If the callback URL is not present that is a server bug

) -> nexus.TemporalOperationResult[None]:
    await client.client.get_workflow_handle(
        f"order-{input.order_id}"
    ).signal("requestCancellation", input)
    return nexus.TemporalOperationResult.sync(None)
```

  </SdkTabs.Python>
  <SdkTabs.TypeScript>

```typescript
const cancelOrder = new temporalnexus.TemporalOperationHandler<CancelOrderInput, void>({
  async start(ctx, client, input) {
    await client.getWorkflowHandle(`order-${input.orderId}`).signal(requestCancellation, input);
    return temporalnexus.TemporalOperationResult.sync(undefined);
  },
});
```

  </SdkTabs.TypeScript>
  <SdkTabs.DotNet>

```csharp
TemporalOperationHandler.FromHandleFactory<CancelOrderInput, NoValue>(
    async (context, client, input) =>
    {
        await client.TemporalClient
            .GetWorkflowHandle($"order-{input.OrderId}")
            .SignalAsync("requestCancellation", new object?[] { input });
        return TemporalOperationResult<NoValue>.SyncResult(default);
    });
```

  </SdkTabs.DotNet>
</SdkTabs>

The same Client also offers Signal-with-Start, and a handler may send several messages before returning.

### Back an Operation with an Activity

> Call `startActivity` when the work is a single durable step. The Activity runs with no parent Workflow, so the options require an Activity Id and at least one timeout. Java also requires a Task Queue; the other SDKs default it to the Task Queue the Operation is running on. See [Nexus Standalone Activity](/nexus/standalone-activity).

Reviewer: Remove the note about Java that is a bug

    return await client.start_activity(
        activities.greet,
        input,
        id=f"greet-{ctx.request_id}",
        task_queue=TASK_QUEUE_NAME,
        start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
    )
```

  </SdkTabs.Python>
  <SdkTabs.TypeScript>

```typescript
const greet = new temporalnexus.TemporalOperationHandler<GreetingInput, GreetingOutput>({
  async start(ctx, client, input) {
    return await client.typedActivity<typeof activities>().startActivity('greet', {
      id: `greet-${ctx.requestId}`,
      args: [input],
      taskQueue: TASK_QUEUE_NAME,
      startToCloseTimeout: '10s',
    });
  },
});
```

  </SdkTabs.TypeScript>
  <SdkTabs.DotNet>

```csharp
TemporalOperationHandler.FromHandleFactory<GreetingInput, GreetingOutput>(
    async (context, client, input) =>
        await client.StartActivityAsync<GreetingOutput>(
            () => GreetingActivities.GreetAsync(input),
            new()
            {
                Id = $"greet-{context.RequestId}",
                TaskQueue = TaskQueueName,
                StartToCloseTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(10),
            }));
```

  </SdkTabs.DotNet>
</SdkTabs>

> ## Coming from the earlier handler APIs

Reviewer: I would add a note that there is no issue if they have workflow operations in progress. `TemporalOperationHandler` can cancel them just fine
